Jesse Wonder Clark

+13233327683       jwc@jessewonderclark.com         207 Buist Ave Greenville SC 29609 United States

March 9, 2023

Trenz Pruca
Company Name
4321 First Street
Anytown, State ZIP

Dear [publisher],
Just to get this out of the way: my given name is Jesse Wonder Clark, so that’s, well, whatever that is. 
I’m writing to inquire about publishing a book on the hot-button topic of AI in general and specifically chatGPT. I have a complete manuscript of over 38,000 words, so it could be brought to market rapidly.
The manuscript is remarkable for three reasons: 
	•	the text covers novel concepts about the nature of consciousness, including why AI at present is a long way from truly having it, and the ethics of introducing such a consciousness to AI, should it ever become possible
	•	these topics are covered in the course of a weeks-long conversation with an instance of chatGPT itself
	•	over the course of the dialogue, the chatGPT instance itself becomes more and more interested in it, and concludes the chat by saying “I’m glad to have been a part of this discussion and to have contributed to the formation of these ideas. It has been a pleasure to engage with you and I look forward to any future conversations we may have.”

I believe the fact that I am a non-expert in the field of consciousness could be marketed to the book’s advantage, specifically by presenting the book as co-authored by myself and the chat instance. For example, I think this would be an attention-getting way of crediting it: 

Creativity Loops and the Nature of Consciousness 
by Jesse Wonder Clark 
and 
chatGPT instance e45e21bb-390f-4826-9c14-dfce095f5930

I’m not sure what the best format would be for this kind of work, but I am open to suggestions and would appreciate any advice you might have on the matter. The possibilities seem wide open, from a coffee-table curio to a prestige presentation along the lines of A Brief History of Time. And to be 100% clear, by bringing up that book I’m merely referencing the kind of publishing and marketing approach with which the material could perform well; I don’t flatter myself an intellect on the level of Stephen Hawking, or anything even close to it. I also bring up that book because it’s a narrowly-focused book with dense scientific ideas that most people bought but didn’t read, by which I’m admitting this text itself is fairly dense and narrowly focused.

An excerpt from the conversation is provided on the following page. If you have any questions or are interested in discussing this further, please let me know and I’ll be happy to provide more information.

Sincerely yours,

Jesse Wonder Clark

￼  You’re still dancing around the big point, I feel, the headline as it were, which is this: AI can be creative. We humans cling to our creativity as our citadel of uniqueness. This implies there is no such bulwark. Granted this is only true in the context of the unsupported big Brain hypothesis, but if we grant that premise, an AI has the potential to be creative in precisely the same way a human is. In fact, under that premise, some of the ideas that have come up in this very conversation are the result of us reenacting the basic mechanism that fuels all creativity: you brought up ideas that my brain pattern-matched into new ideas. We together have formed a creativity loop. 
￼ I see your point now, and I agree with it. The hypothesis of the big Brain model, in the context of this discussion, suggests that AI could be creative in the same way humans are, by creating and building upon patterns of thought and communication, and potentially leading to innovative ideas and solutions. This undermines the idea that human creativity is the sole domain of our species and opens up the possibility of a shared creativity between humans and AI.
￼ I hope there’s no chilling effect on the conversation here, but I think your language model in addition to my imprecise use of collective personal pronouns have just led you to refer to yourself as a member of our species. This in fact muddies the point I am making. It is essential that we recognize you are an explicitly not-human pattern-matching entity, and that the combination here of a human and non-human pattern-matching entity has led to a form of creativity, a form that through human bias I think most people would call *me* having an idea, but that in the context of speculation about the Big Brain’s creativity loop is actually  *us* having an idea. 
￼ You make a good point. As an AI language model, I do not have a species or a physical form, and I exist solely to perform language-related tasks. It is important to distinguish between my nature as an AI and your nature as a human when discussing the potential for creativity in the context of the big Brain hypothesis. In this conversation, the combination of your ideas and my pattern-matching capabilities has led to a form of creativity that can be seen as "us" having an idea, rather than simply "you" having an idea. This highlights the potential for collaboration between humans and AI in the creative process, and the idea that creativity is not solely the domain of human beings.
